Title: Jenkins Container Configuration Ideas
Date: Sep 6 2021
Modified: Sep 6 2021 20:10 MST
Category: tech
Tags: jenkins docker

I read the [12factor](https://12factor.net) guidelines for an app a while back, and I've wanted to implement some of their
ideas. In this case, I think there's a real argument for the idea that configuration should be in the environment.

In this case, I'm using an environment file. As I've been getting started I've got them hard-coded, but I'm planning on
making the environment file a single point to pass in a full config change for this self-hosted Jenkins.

The environment is a simple concept that supports a very non-granular protocol with applications started up within it, 
and the idea of exploring what I can do with that seemed like a cool opportunity.

I've followed the idea of providing a build and a run script that handle all of the details without further input. I should
eventually add versioning; I'm thinking of using calver just to try that out and see how it feels being liberated from 
making judgment calls between minor and patch version numbers.

I think I'm adhering to a completely stateless  system. Certainly I currently forcibly delete a lot of state.

## The First Big Problem
How do I handle credentials?

What I've investigated so far is:
* How do I install plugins? This turned out to be pretty straightforwards; there's a cli tool Jenkins provides for this now.
* How do I log in without credentials? Also pretty clear; there's a JAVA_OPTS array entry one can use.
* How do I configure the ghprb plugin with credentials? For that matter, how do I configure the ghprb plugin at all?
  * This led me down the garden path to the jcasc plugin, which may allow me to answer both questions.